Add overview (#447)
Shopify/ruby-lsp: README.md

This gem is an implementation of the [language server protocol specification](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/) for Ruby, used to improve editor features.

# Overview

> The intention of Ruby LSP is to provide a fast, accurate, and robust coding environment for Ruby developers, especially for large codebases.

Reviewer: Is this duplicated?

Author: Indeed, fixed.

The intention of Ruby LSP is to provide a fast, robust and feature-rich coding environment for Ruby developers.

It's part of a [wider Shopify goal](https://github.com/Shopify/vscode-shopify-ruby) to provide a state-of-the-art experience to Ruby developers using modern standards for cross-editor features, documentation and debugging.

It provides many features, including:

* Syntax highlighting
* Linting and formatting
* Code folding
* Selection ranges

It does not perform typechecking, so its features are implemented on a best-effort basis, aiming to be as accurate as possible.

Planned future features include:

* Auto-completion and navigation ("Go To Definition") ([prototype](https://github.com/Shopify/ruby-lsp/pull/429))
* Support for plug-ins to extend behavior

> ruby-lsp does not perform any type-checking or provide any type-related assistance, but it can be used alongside [Sorbet](https://github.com/sorbet/sorbet)'s LSP server.

Author: This is now a somewhat duplicating what was said previously, but it's such key point that I think it's worth repeating.

> ruby-lsp does not perform any type-checking or provide any type-related assistance, but it can be used alongside [Sorbet](https://github.com/sorbet/sorbet)'s LSP server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Ruby LSP does not perform any type-checking or provide any type-related assistance, but it can be used alongside [Sorbet](https://github.com/sorbet/sorbet)'s LSP server.
```

This gem is an implementation of the [language server protocol specification](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/) for Ruby, used to improve editor features.

# Overview

> The intention of Ruby LSP is to provide a fast, accurate, and robust coding environment for Ruby developers, especially for large codebases.

Reviewer: Because we don't perform typechecking, our features are actually never 100% accurate, but rather are a best effort. For example, when we implement go to definition, we'll match methods based on name and arity, which is guaranteed to include incorrect results.

```suggestion
The intention of Ruby LSP is to provide a fast, robust and feature rich coding environment for Ruby developers. It does not perform typechecking, so its features are implemented in a best effort basis, attempting to be as accurate as possible.
```

It's part of a [wider Shopify goal](https://github.com/Shopify/vscode-shopify-ruby) to provide a state-of-the-art experience to Ruby developers using modern standards for cross-editor features, documentation and debugging.

It provides many features, including:

* Syntax highlighting
* Linting and formatting
* Code folding
* Selection ranges

> When used on typed Sorbet code, additional features are available:

Reviewer: The Ruby LSP and Sorbet work completely independently - with no interaction between the two whatsoever. I don't think we should include this section, we can simply say "The Ruby LSP is designed to work by itself or paired with Sorbet".

Author: Ah, hover didn't seem to be working without Sorbet when I tried previously so I thought there was some connection, but it's working now so something separate must have been happening.

* Quick documentation lookup when hovering over a Ruby or Rails method.
* Support for Go To Definition.

Planned future features include:

> * Context-aware auto-completion and navigation ("Go To Definition") for non-typed code ([prototype](https://github.com/Shopify/ruby-lsp/pull/429))

Reviewer: What does context-aware mean in this case? Can it be confused with proper typechecking?

Also, let's avoid the usage of "non-typed code". It feels like we're explaining the Ruby LSP from a Sorbet standpoint, when we should just explain the Ruby LSP. It provides features for Ruby code.

Author: > What does context-aware mean in this case? Can it be confused with proper typechecking?

I suppose it depends how far https://github.com/Shopify/ruby-lsp/pull/429 goes, but I think at the minimum we'd would be able to auto-complete constant names? Context-aware is maybe a bit vague though, so I'll take that out.

* Support for plug-ins to extend behavior

ruby-lsp does not perform any type-checking or provide any type-related assistance, but it can be used alongside [Sorbet](https://github.com/sorbet/sorbet)'s LSP server.

At the time of writing, these are the major differences between Ruby LSP and [Solargraph](https://solargraph.org/):

* Solargraph [uses](https://solargraph.org/guides/yard) YARD documentation to gather information about your project and its gem dependencies. This provides functionality such as context-aware auto-completion and navigation ("Go To Definition")

> * Solargraph can be used as a globally installed gem, but Ruby LSP must be added to the Gemfile or gemspec. (There are pros and cons to each approach)

Reviewer: Similar to my other comment, I'd point out that this is only true for projects using RuboCop.

> * To parse Ruby code, Solargraph uses [Parser](https://github.com/whitequark/parser) and Ruby uses [Syntax Tree](https://github.com/ruby-syntax-tree/syntax_tree).

Reviewer: When we chatted about describing technical details, the feedback was that it's not relevant for users deciding which one to use. Does it matter which parser is used underneath?

Author: You're right, I was trying to convey that it's built on top of a set of modern technologies, but that's probably too specific.

If using VS Code, install the [Ruby LSP plugin](https://github.com/Shopify/vscode-ruby-lsp) to get the extra features in
the editor.

See the [documentation](https://shopify.github.io/ruby-lsp) for more in-depth details about the
[supported features](https://shopify.github.io/ruby-lsp/RubyLsp/Requests.html).

> Currently is not possible to use a 'globally installed' version of the gem - it must be part of the `Gemfile`.

Reviewer: You can actually use it from a global installation for editors other than VS Code (e.g.: NeoVim) as long as you're not using RuboCop.
